# What is UNIX?

### TL;DR
Unix is an old operating system that we dont really use any more. _Linix_ and _OSX_ are basicaly unix. This book uses the word "Unix" to represent all the operating systems that are basicly unix. This book is not a Unix history book, and doesnt have an opinion about about what makes an operating system "Unix". This book wants to help developers learn unix commands that will make them wicked good at the command line. So they can develope faster and have more fun deving!  
 
### unabridged
UNIX is a very confusing and often missused name. Unix is an operating system that was developed at [Bell Labs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bell_Labs) in the 1970's. Its design made it very adaptable, and it has been able to keep up with the ways computers have changed over the last 40 years. Unix implementations are extremly popular operating systems for modern computers. There are a handful of free and propriatry unix implementations including _Linix_, _Darwin_ (OS X), _Solaris_, and _FreeBSD_. Each Unix implementation is unique, and has its own flavor in the way it works. Which means they are not identical, but they have enough in common that if you can do something on one, you can expect it to be done "the same way" on another. People often use `*nix` to represent all of the Unix implementations in a sinlge word. [learnyounix](README.md) is not geared towards any particular Unix implementaion. However, using _Linix_ or _OS X_ to follow a long this book is recommend.  

For the purposes of this book a unix operating system is made up of a [file system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_system), [kernel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(operating_system)), and a bundle of programs. The kernal is the program that is the core of the operating system. Its job is to control all of the other programs, and talk to the computers hardware. The file system is used store data. This book will refer to different ways of fetching and storing data from the file file sysem as _CRUD_ operations: CREATE, READ, UPDATE, and DESTORY. The "bundle of programs" will be the main focus of this book. There are a variaty of programs the book will refer to as _Core Utils_ that can be found by default on most unix operating systems. **LYU** refers to them as core utils becaue they are often created by the [GNU](http://www.gnu.org/) developer community, and GNU refers to their package of basic default commands as the [GNU coreutils](http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/coreutils.html). However, the defalut commands on your computer may not neccisarily be GNU implementations. Some of the commands in this book will need to be installed using a package manager, or from source if you would like. **LYU** will try to let you know when commands are not usualy on unix opperating systems by default. If you ever get an error simular to "command not found". Try installing that command with your package manager.  

This book will not teach you the history of Unix, or what an opperating system is. It will teach you how and when to use a ton of different unix commands, so that you can shred at the command line and have more fun deving :)!  

